PAUL LEWIS: Hello, folks.
You may remember
in the last entry
I talked about the idea of
chunking the downloads as they
came in.
So imagine you've got the large
video, the large audio file,
and you want to chunk
them up into bytes,
into like half-meg chunks or
something because we don't want
to be pulling out
that entire video,
however big it is, from end
to end just to get a slice out
of the middle.
Does that make sense?
Maybe not.
Well, join me on the journey
through the range request.
Now, in case you haven't
seen to this point, when
we make a request for a
video or part of a video,
we do a thing called
a range request, which
is get me the bytes 0 to
1,000, 2,000 to 5,000,
whatever you like.
And so in order to
satisfy that, we actually
have in our service worker
to handle the range response.
We need to be able to
take in a range request
and satisfy from the
cache a range response.
As such, we don't
want to be pulling
out a large amount of data just
to get a small chunk of it.
So the idea of chunking the
files in the first place
is to make sure that we can pull
out as little information as
possible, reasonably
so, and just
getting a little bit we kind
of need and pop that out.
Now, I'd like it if the cache's
API actually supported it.
But it doesn't, so
we do it ourselves.
So as we left things last time--
in fact, let me show you where
things had got to last time.
We have a copy of a video in
the cache that looks like this.
So zero, one, these are all
the chunks for the 720p video.
Let me show you what happens
when the Shaka Player starts
to request video.
Look at these guys, eh?
What a pair of monkeys.
Right.
Let's have a look at
one of these requests.
There we are-- the
header request.
That's the options.
We don't need that.
We want-- (HUMMING)
there we are.
There's the range
part of the request.
It says it wants bytes
2614503 to 4152439.
So let's have a look
at the service worker.
This is the fetch.
So whenever a request
is made by the page,
it's going to come to the
service worker's fetch handler,
which is registered
here as onFetch.
Now, the first thing
that I actually do
is I say, given this
request, I hand this off
to my ranged response class,
which is exactly what where
going to be looking
in but a moment.
And I ask it, look, with
this request that you've got,
can you handle it?
And if it's not a range request,
it's going to say, well, no.
And if it is a
range request, it's
going to start going, well, do
I have enough bytes to actually
handle that particular range?
Because if I don't, you should
really definitely fall back
to the network.
So we basically start with,
well, can you handle it?
If you can, sure, go
ahead and handle it.
If you can't, just check
to see whether there's
a match for the
file in the cache,
because it may not
be a range request.
But it may be a request
for something like an icon
or one of the album arts
or the poster frames
and things like that.
In which case, that
might exist in the cache,
and we can just respond with
it directly from the cache
without a range response.
And then last but not
least, for everything else
that we don't have, we fall
through to a standard issue
go to the network, fetch it,
and then just bring it back.
So all the interesting
stuff, I think,
is happening inside this
ranged response class.
This is the ranged
response class.
And you can see that
here's the can handle.
And the first question
is, is it a range request?
Because if it isn't,
we don't care.
So the question is, when
we go to the request
and we look at its headers,
is there a range header?
And if there is, then great.
If not, there isn't and so on.
And assuming that it is a range
request, the next thing we do
is we actually look for the URL.
So we try and get--
in theory we get the
whole file from the cache.
And if we can just respond
with that, then we would.
The chances are-- in fact,
we probably don't even
need this code anymore.
I might just remove that
because it is a range request.
And so just responding
with the entire response
would be a bit bizarre.
So I might need
to drop that code.
So let's assume
that after this I
will, in fact, drop that code.
What will happen next
is that we go through
and we say, right, what
is the range request?
And I ask for things
like the start and end.
So because that range
request is a string
and it's like
bytes this to this,
there's a little bit
of string parsing
in the get start and end.
We can pull out two values, the
start byte and the end byte.
Now, if you remember, I
was chunking the files up
into, I think it was,
half-megabyte chunks.
And so what I do is
I say, well, look,
given the start and end values,
which chunks do we need?
And I say, look, do you have
the file underscore, say, 9
and underscore 10, which would
be based off these values?
And it might be
like 9 through 12.
And I assume that if
you've got 9 and 12,
you've got 10 and 11
in the middle, which
is an assumption on my part.
But there you go.
It works out fine for me
in my particular situation.
So there we go.
And we basically
say, well, look,
do you have a response for every
single one of those chunks?
Do you have, like, 9 and 10,
or 9 through 11, whatever?
And if the answer is yes--
or if the answer is
no, then we just bail.
If the answer is yes, then
I have to start diving
in a little bit more.
And I have to start
looking in each
of those chunks,
particularly the last chunk.
Remember, perhaps, in the
bit where we were actually
storing each of these
chunks, we might actually
have a partial chunk.
We might not have an exactly
half-megabyte chunk at the end.
We might have, say, 200 bytes.
And so I stole this header
on the actual chunk size
against that chunk.
And so later on I can
say, well, look, get me
what the actual
chunk says it is.
Because even if you
think it's 512K,
it might actually
be only 200 bytes.
So I need to know.
And what I do is I say, all
right, what was the byte range?
And what's the actual
final byte that I
have stored in the cache?
Now, if I've stored the entire
thing offline, we're good.
If I've only stored
part of the file,
like in the case of prefetching
the first 30 seconds,
eventually I'm going to run out
of data that I've prefetched.
And so that's where this
one really helps us out
because it's the bit where we
say we definitely can or cannot
handle the range, even if
we got part of that data.
If we can't do the entire
byte range, we should say no.
So eventually if the final
bytes in the end chunk
is less than the
end, we just say no.
Otherwise we say, sure.
And that's the bit where
we're just checking now,
can you handle this
range response?
Can you create
this range response
from this range request?
So that's that first part.
Then-- so there are a
few helpers in here.
And here's the other
one, actually creating
the ranged response.
So what we want to do is we want
to go through and we want to--
in fact, it's in
create, isn't it?
(HUMMING) Yes, create from
chunks, that's probably
the more interesting one.
You can have a look through
all the source code.
It is on GiHub.
Have a proper look
through this file
to see all the different
things that I'm doing.
What we do in the
createFrom chunk--
so again, we've got this video.
It's in loads of chunks.
And we want to get just the
chunks we need and pop those
together and then use that
to create our response.
What we do is we go
through, and, again,
we do with the request.
We find out which
indexes we need.
If the start and the end
indexes are totally the same,
then we can sort of
shortcut this next process,
because, well, it's
just one chunk.
So you might well just
pull that one chunk out,
slice the bit you need,
and send that back.
But if you need to do multiple
chunks, that's the next bit.
And there's just a
bunch of wrangling here,
which isn't all that much fun.
But what we do that's probably
of interest, at least to me,
was copying the buffer.
So we make one big buffer
for the number of chunks
that we've got, and we copy
each of the buffers in.
So now we've got
one big buffer with,
like, all the bytes from the
chunks that we pulled out,
so like 9, 10, 11.
Let's get all those
bytes and make a buffer
that's got enough space
for 9, 10, 11, shove them
all in there, thump.
That's the thing we send across.
And then we can create the
ranged response from that.
We go through.
And given the start and
the end and whatever else,
we slice off the
start and the end
from that particular
buffer that we had.
And you can see that there's,
like, an offset value here
because we started
part way into the file.
So if I say I need
bytes, I don't know--
can't do the maths
quickly enough here.
But if I said I needed
bytes 10,000 to 11,000
and I've only given you an array
of 2,000 bytes because I've
kind of offset you by the
number of chunks that we've got,
I need to offset you back so
that your indexes that you're
actually looking for have been
offset by the number of chunks
in that we were.
Eh, it's all wrangling.
I tell you, it's all wrangling.
Eventually, though,
thankfully, we
can see that the
response comes back.
And we do have the bytes.
And it all kind of does the
thing that we wanted it to do.
So it does mean that
we are responding
from the cache with the chunks
that we need and everything
is working.
Now, what else can I explain
to you about all this?
Well, there's one
little thing that I
thought was quite interesting,
which I didn't realize
at all before I got to this.
These video files
that you'll see,
they're coming from the
storage.googleapis.com.
They're actually being stored in
a cloud bucket, a Google Cloud
bucket, which is great.
But it doesn't mean
that I'm making
calls requests because they're
not in the same origin as me.
They're not coming
from local host 8080.
And I have had a fairly troubled
relationship with calls.
It never seems to
sink in for me.
It's just one of those things
that I'm not very OK with.
I'll be honest with you.
And I was used to the idea
that you have the access
control allow origin.
And most people would star
if they're comfy with that,
or they'll put in
the specific origin.
What I didn't realize is that
you also need to say whether
the request can be
made with credentials--
so that's things like
cookies and whatever--
and the headers that are
allowed to be exposed.
You can see here in the
access control expose headers,
one of these is the
x from cache header.
Now, the reason I do this,
I've got the x from cache
header in here
because there's times
where I will need to know that
a particular chunk came in
from the cache.
Why?
Well, the Shaka Player
is one very good reason
for this is that it does this
bandwidth with estimations
based on each of these
responses coming back in, cool?
OK.
But the problem is if
it comes from a cache,
it's going to come
back really quickly.
And so it's going to estimate
that the bandwidth is
super good.
Doesn't sound too
bad, and it's not bad
if you've got the entire
video cached for offline.
Because it doesn't really
matter what it thinks
the bandwidth is,
because I've also
locked it into a particular
representation of the video.
But what if you're in
the situation where
you've preloaded the, say,
first 30 seconds of the video
and then you're dropping back
down to a network and adaptive
later on?
In that situation, you
can't get away with that.
So what you have to
do is you have to say,
right, first of all,
this first 30 seconds,
ignore these for the
bandwidth calculations.
And that's what the x
from cash header really
is going to be doing.
It's going to be telling Shaka,
don't include these chunks
there.
They're misrepresentative.
They're not actually
the kind of chunks
you want to be accounting for
when you do your bandwidth
estimations.
But in order for that to
work, in order for that header
to be passed
through, you actually
have to say it's
an allowed header,
it's an exposed
header and a header
you're allow to expose
on the server side.
Why?
Well, what happens is this.
I make from my page a request.
The request is handled
by the service worker,
and the service worker is using
the responses for the videos
and so on that it got
from the cloud bucket.
And so what it does is
it goes, right, which
headers am I allowed to send?
And I want it to say,
well, it's an x from cache
response, which you'll
see in the code here--
this x from cache.
But if the server
side didn't say
that it was an allowed header,
the service worker will go,
I'm going to filter
any headers that server
didn't tell me could go with
this particular response.
So even though I'm adding
it in the service worker,
if a server side
doesn't say you're
allowed to put the header
on, the service worker
it will filter it out,
which makes sense.
I can't just take a
cross-origin resource,
add on my own custom
headers, and then expect
it to ship out exactly as was.
I have to make sure
that the service said
that those headers were allowed
to be added in the first place.
So there you go.
That's something that I
found quite interesting.
I kind of followed the
chain of logic to the end.
But it did take me a
little while to kind of go,
oh, I wonder if it's
something that I
need to configure
on the server side
to say that those
headers are allowed.
Because I was looking
at responses going,
those headers are coming
in, but none of my headers
are coming in.
Why would my headers
get filtered out?
And it turns out, yes,
if the server doesn't
say you're allowed to actually
add them in or have them there,
then the service worker will--
it'll let you add them but.
It will then filter
them out before it sends
the response back to the page.
So there you go.
Now we've all learned
something thrilling.
Nobody ever says
that about calls.
Do you know what I did today?
I did calls, hooray.
It's not a fun area.
But it's a very necessary
one for making sure
that resources are
loaded correctly
and all the rest of it.
So I see it's value.
I just don't enjoy
working with it.
It's just one of those things.
Anyway, that's the
service worker side
of things for
handling the chunks
and for putting things back
together into ranged responses.
Definitely have a read
through that code.
I tried to make it as
verbose as possible
so that in six months
when I look back at it,
I'm not completely confused.
And hopefully that will
mean that if you look at it,
you won't be completely
confused either.
But if you've got
questions, well, you
know exactly where
to put those--
down there, as usual.
And don't forget that you
can subscribe and say hello
to me on Twitter or
wherever you like.
And I will catch you, oh,
yeah, in the next entry.
Bye.
Hello.
Thanks for watching.
If you enjoyed this
video, well, you
may enjoy other videos
that we make too.
So don't forget that
you can subscribe.
And you'll get notified when
we push out a new video.
And there's more videos
over there or down there,
depending on how you're
watching the YouTubes right now.
Definitely click on those.